## Service Definition

A service, in the context of DCM, is a component that can expose functions via an API to declaratively create, ingest, modify, delete, manage, and decommission a realized entity. That entity can be a component of the Platform to deliver services to development teams or an instantiation of an application and the components necessary to run it.

It starts at the most atomic layer, the individual hardware items within the data center, and can encompass an orchestrated collection of subservices that manage the workloads running on the platform. For example, a VM service will encompass subservices provided by DNS, networking, and storage to instantiate a virtual machine. It would also make a call to the Operating System service to retrieve the current, approved OS image version to deploy and register it with the Operating System patch management service.

These APIs are designed with a standard set of data components, and a structure to extend as required to declaratively deliver the defined outcome. It uses a standardized, hierarchical data model to support integration across services, along with additional details, including inventory and ownership information, that make it easier to manage the realized entities. There is also a standardized method to define a business rules and/or logic to ensure idempotency of the API calls and eases the management of the realized entities. These APIs should encompass all aspects of management, from Day 0 processes to stand up new gear, to Day 1 processes to deliver realized entities, followed by Day 2 management of those realized entities. Lastly, the Day N services should cleanly free up the consumed resources and update the inventory state. As higher order services are created, composed of these atomic structures, decommissioning services should be a mirror of the provisioning process. E.g. For every orchestrated creation process, there should be an equally comprehensive and orchestrated decommissioning process to ensure the correct declared state.

The Business Rules should include references to which category the APIs fall under and which teams are authorized to access each of the functions. The metadata and rules definitions should be stored and managed under version control.

The API exposed would ideally be a real API that calls automation to execute consistently. However, there is a need to address the existing environment and workloads. To “green the brownfield”, the use of Team APIs can be used to help manage those existing environments and align the organization over time. Team APIs (https://github.com/TeamTopologies/Team-API-template) are a way to standardize how to communicate with a team and describe where that team fits within the organization. This sets the table to eventually replace the Team API with a real Service API that executes automation to accomplish tasks.
